The threat assessment life cycle can be summarized in three phases;
you must identify, analyze,
and prioritize threats on an ongoing basis.
The identification stage includes using everything you know
about your environment and company in order to start identifying potential threats.
This is a combination of brainstorming and also using
available resources to discover threats both proactively and reactively.
For example, threat detection software and tools
exist such as endpoint detection and response solutions,
also known as EDR.
These can help companies identify threats.
One advanced method is to use threat hunting.
That's a process in which you proactively comb through networks to find
advanced and undetected threats that may bypass typical detection technology.
Finally, you want to think about the threat actors we've discussed,
their motivations, and how they might be relevant to a business.
During the analyze phase,
you want to gather as much detail and information about the threats you've identified.
Many resources can help here as well.
For example, Google is a great place to start to learn about a threat.
You can also leverage intelligence sharing groups,
the FBI, and dark web searching.
You can even find a ton of information about threat
actors through social media and blogs.
There are also threat intelligence technology platforms
that aggregate and interpret mass amounts of
threat data from different sources to provide
the necessary context for decision-making and threat assessment.
Then the goal of gathering all of this information is to start building threat scenarios,
threat profiles, and threat models that can
paint a more clear picture of threats relevant to the company.
The final step is to prioritize the threats.
Here, you take into account the variables that matter to
the company in order to determine what the greatest concerns are.
A company may take into account, for example,
the likelihood that the threat would actually impact them,
what that impact would be,
and what controls are in place to protect against that impact.
One thing to note here is that while the task of
threat intelligence is listed under the analyze phase in the overarching framework,
because that's where it's probably leveraged the most.
Threat intelligence also plays a huge role in identifying and prioritizing risks as well.
It applies across the board and the life cycle is a never ending process.